.\" corepkg - The Core Linux Distro package manager. 
.\" Copyright 2003 Josh Devan <jd@eknitek.net> 
.\" Copyright 2011 D. E. Evans <sinuhe@gnu.org>
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by 
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or 
.\" (at your option) any later version. 
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of 
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the 
.\" GNU General Public License for more details. 
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along 
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

.TH corepkg 8 "25 September 2011" "CorePKG" "sGOS"

.SH NAME
corepkg - Handle core packages [.cpk]

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B corepkg [-c|-l] [dir]
.br
.B corepkg [-i|-x file] [dir]
.br
.B corepkg [-u file] [dir]
.br
.B corepkg [-q file|package] [dir]
.br
.B corepkg [-r pkg] [dir]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CorePKG utility installs, removes, queries, and creates core packages.
It also lists installed packages and extracts the contents of a core
pacakge.  A core package is a gzip compressed tape archive containing
a core.info and core.list file in the root of the archive, and using
.cpk as extension. Arguments are of three types: file (a .cpk package),
package name (pkg), or directory (dir). All directory arguments are
optional and will revert to defaults if not included.

.SH INSTALL
corepkg -i file [dir]
.sp 2
Install package file to the filesystem. [dir] defaults to "/". Any extra
installation (and removal) instructions will be displayed.

.SH UPGRADE
corepkg -u file [dir]
.sp 2
Upgrade package with a new version. [dir defaults to "/".
Currently, this does not allow upgrading a package of a different name.

.SH REMOVE
corepkg -r pkg [dir]
.sp 2
Remove package [pkg] from the filesystem. [dir] defaults to "/". Any
extra removal (and installation) instructions will be displayed.  There
is no dependency checking.  If you remove critical libraries or
binaries, your system may become inoperable.  A log will be placed in
[dir]/var/log/removed_pkgs/pkg-$(date +%F) of the package, and files,
removed.

.SH QUERY
corepkg -q file|pkg [dir]
.sp 2
Display information about package from a package, from an installed
package or package file. [dir] defaults to "/".

.SH LIST
corepkg -l [dir]
.sp 2
List all installed packages and their versions. [dir] defaults to "/".

.SH CREATE
corepkg -c [dir]
.sp 2
Create a package from directory [dir]. [dir] defaults to the current
working directory.

.SH EXTRACT
corepkg -x [file] [dir]
.sp 2
Extract package [file] to a directory. [dir] defaults to the name of
the package.

.SH BUGS
Hopefully, none.

.SH EXAMPLES
corepkg -i bash-2.05b+1.cpk /mnt/root
.br
corepkg -u bash /mnt/root
.br
corepkg -q bash-2.05b+1.cpk
.br
corepkg -q bash /
.br
corepkg -l /
.br
corepkg -c sGOS/bash
.br
corepkg -x bash-2.05b+1.cpk pkgs/core_bash

.SH AUTHORS
Josh Devan, author of the Core Linux Distribution [http://coredistro.sf.net/],
now defunct, for which he wrote the original CorePKG.

David Egan Evans, author of sGOS, based on Core.
